



The Gates of Morning/Book 1/Chapter 1 - Wikisource, the free online library




















































Jump to content
















Main menu












Main menu


move to sidebar


hide







		Navigation
	






Main Page
Community portal
Central discussion
Recent changes
Subject index
Authors
Random work
Random author
Random transcription
Help
Special pages











		Display Options
	










































Search
























Search














































Appearance


































Donate




Create account




Log in


















Personal tools












Donate
 
Create account
 
Log in











		Pages for logged out editors 
learn more








Contributions
Talk
























































The Gates of Morning/Book 1/Chapter 1








Add languages












Add links
























Page
Source
Discussion












English




































Read
Edit
View history
















Tools












Tools


move to sidebar


hide







		Actions
	






Read
Edit
View history


Purge
Hard purge
Null edit









		General
	






What links here
Related changes
Permanent link
Page information
Cite this page
Get shortened URL
Download QR code


Add interlanguage links









		Print/export
	






Printable version
Download EPUB
Download MOBI
Download PDF
Other formats











		In other projects
	
















































Appearance


move to sidebar


hide




Text
Small
Standard
Large
This page always uses small font size
Width
Standard
Wide
The content is as wide as possible for your browser window.
















Download




From Wikisource




< 
The Gates of Morning
 | 
Book 1


←
Book 1
The Gates of Morning/Book 1
by 
Henry De Vere Stacpoole
Book 1. Chapter 1
Chapter 2
→
3402821
The Gates of Morning/Book 1
 — Book 1. Chapter 1
Henry De Vere Stacpoole




​


"The Gates of Morning"


CHAPTER I

THE CANOE BUILDER






D
ICK standing on a ledge of coral cast his eyes to the South.

Behind him the breakers of the outer sea thundered and the spindrift scattered on the wind; before him stretched an ocean calm as a lake, infinite, blue, and flown about by the fishing gulls—the lagoon of Karolin.

Clipped by its forty-mile ring of coral this great pond was a sea in itself, a sea of storm in heavy winds, a lake of azure, in light airs—and it was his—he who had landed here only yesterday.

Women, children, youths, all the tribe to be seen busy along the beach in the blazing sun, fishing with nets, playing their games or working on the paraka patches, all were his people. His were the canoes drawn up on the sand and his the empty houses where the war canoes had once rested on their rollers.

Then as he cast his eyes from the lagoon to the canoe houses his brow contracted, and, turning his back to the lagoon he stood facing the breakers on the outer beach and the northern sea. Away there,  
​
beyond  the sea line, invisible, lay Palm Tree, an island beautiful as a dream, yet swarming with devils.

Little Tari the son of Le Taioi the net maker, sitting on the coral close by, looked up at him. Tari knew little of life, but he knew that all the men of Karolin swept away by war had left the women and the boys and the children like himself defenceless and without a man or leader.

Then, yesterday, from the northern sea in a strange boat and with Katafa, the girl who had been blown to sea years ago when out fishing, this strange new figure had come, sent by the gods, so the women said, to be their chief and ruler.

The child knew nothing of whom the gods might be nor did he care, alone now with this wonderful new person, and out of earshot of his mother, he put the question direct with all the simplicity of childhood.

“Taori,” said little Tari, “who are you?” (
é kamina tai
)

Could Dick have answered, would the child have understood the strange words of the strange story Dick might have told him? “Tari, I come of people beyond the world you know. My name is Dick Lestrange, and when I was smaller than you, Tari, I was left alone with an old sailor man on that island you call Marua (Palm Tree), which lies beyond sight fifty miles to the north. There we lived and there I grew to be a boy and Kearney, that was his name, taught me to fish and spear fish, and he made for me things to play with, little ships unlike the canoes of 
​
the islands. And then, Tari, one day long ago came Katafa, the girl who was blown away from here in a storm. She lived with us till Kearney died and then we two were alone. She taught me her language, which is the language of Karolin. She named me Taori; we loved one another and might have lived for ever at Marua had not a great ship come there filled with bad men, men from the eastern islands of Melanesia. They came to cut the trees. Then they rose and killed the white men with them a